What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

    Git init command creates a new Git repository.  Each Git repository is
    tied to a specific directory where you ran git init.  You need to create
    a repository if you want to use Git to track changes across files in that
    directory.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

    Staging area is an intermediate zone that allows you to choose, one at a
    time, which files will be added to the repository.  The working directory
    simple contains all files saved in it, while the repository represents
    the bundled contents of the staging area.  Staging area provides
    flexibility to determine which files you want to link for purposes of
    tracking changes.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

    Move the relevant files from the working directory into the staging area.
    Then check use git diff to compare changes in the working directory to
    what is in the staging area, and use git diff --staged to check changes
    in the staging area against the most recent commit.  If these changes are
    the ones you want, you can proceed to git commit.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

    Branches can be used to develop alternate versions of a program (in a
    foreign language for example) or to test a more meaningful change to the
    code (such as an experimental feature or structural change). By doing it
    this way, you can keep track of the different approaches, rather than
    trying to make all edits directly in the master branch.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

    The diagrams show clearly the alternate versions of the code, which
    changes (commits) were made to the main (master) version, and which
    changes were made to alternate versions (branches). Each commit links
    back to its parent (parent refers to the commit that was checked out
    when the new commit was made).

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

    Merging two branches creates a combined version that contains info about
    both parents.  We still have access to the old commits from each of the
    branches (commits are sorted by time stamp).  The diagram includes arrows
    back to each of the parent commits to show this.